Etcd prereq fixes (#159)
ondat/documentation: docs/prerequisites/etcd/etcd-outside-the-cluster.md

---
title: "Etcd outside the cluster"
linkTitle: Etcd outside the cluster
weight: 700
---

This page documents the process for installing etcd outside the Kubernetes
cluster.

In some circumstances it can make sense to run etcd outside of Kubernetes. One

> of such circumstances is running an on-premises Kubernetes cluster and not

Reviewer: ```suggestion
example is when running an on-premises Kubernetes cluster, if you do not
```

> having access to reliable cloud disks (for storing etcd data).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
have access to reliable cloud disks to provide high availability to etcd data.
```

For production installations running etcd outside the cluster, Ondat strongly
recommends running etcd on a minimum of 3 dedicated virtual machines. This
topology offers strong guarantees of resilience and uptime.

> Ondat doesn't require a high performance etcd cluster, as the throughput of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ondat doesn't require a high performance etcd cluster as the throughput of
```
